[sgd] Refactor PyTorch SGD Documentation. (#6910)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/raysgd/raysgd_pytorch.rst

.. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change in the near future.

.. tip:: Get in touch with us if you're using/considering using `RaySGD <https://forms.gle/26EMwdahdgm7Lscy9>`_!

.. image:: raysgd-pytorch.svg
    :align: center

The RaySGD ``PyTorchTrainer`` simplifies distributed model training for PyTorch. The ``PyTorchTrainer`` is a wrapper around ``torch.distributed.launch`` with a Python API to easily incorporate distributed training into a larger Python application, as opposed to needing to execute training outside of Python.

Under the hood, ``PytorchTrainer`` will create *replicas* of your model (controlled by ``num_replicas``) which are each managed by a Ray actor.

.. image:: raysgd-actors.svg
    :align: center

Setting up training
-------------------

> The ``PyTorchTrainer`` can be constructed with functions that construct components of the training script. Specifically, it needs constructors for the Model, Data, Optimizer, and Loss. This is so that we can create replicated copies of the neural network/optimizer across different devices and machines.

Author: In this paragraph, we should also mention the cases where we take in different types for each argument.

.. warning:: This is still an experimental API and is subject to change in the near future.

> .. tip:: Get in touch with us if you're using/considering using `RaySGD <https://forms.gle/26EMwdahdgm7Lscy9>`_!

Author: ```suggestion
.. tip:: Get in touch with us if you're using or considering using `RaySGD <https://forms.gle/26EMwdahdgm7Lscy9>`_!
```

.. image:: raysgd-pytorch.svg
    :align: center

The RaySGD ``PyTorchTrainer`` simplifies distributed model training for PyTorch. The ``PyTorchTrainer`` is a wrapper around ``torch.distributed.launch`` with a Python API to easily incorporate distributed training into a larger Python application, as opposed to needing to execute training outside of Python. For end to end examples, see :ref:`raysgd-pytorch-example`.

> Under the hood, ``PytorchTrainer`` will create *replicas* of your model (controlled by ``num_replicas``) which are each managed by a Ray actor.

Author: ```suggestion
Under the hood, ``PytorchTrainer`` will create *replicas* of your model (controlled by ``num_replicas``), each of which is managed by a Ray actor.
```

        must be returned. By default, the PyTorchTrainer will run each model
        over the provided datasets one at a time.

        Args:
            config (dict): Configuration dictionary passed into ``PyTorchTrainer``.

        Returns:
            One or more torch.nn.Module objects.
        """
        return nn.Linear(1, 1)

    def optimizer_creator(models, config):
        """Constructor of the optimizers.

        Args:
            models: The return values from ``model_creator``. This can be one
                or more torch nn modules.
            config (dict): Configuration dictionary passed into ``PyTorchTrainer``.

        Returns:
            One or more Torch optimizer objects. You must return as many optimizers
            as you have models.
        """
      return torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), lr=config.get("lr", 1e-4))

    def data_creator(config):
        """Constructs torch.utils.data.Dataset objects.

        Note that even though two Dataset objects can be returned,
        only one dataset will be used for training.

        Args:
            config: Configuration dictionary passed into ``PyTorchTrainer``

>         Returns:

Author: Good question, I'm thinking about the case where users don't actually care to call ``validate`` (which I find myself doing quite often).  One possibility is to allow users to pass in a data creator in validate, but I can do that in a separate PR.

            One or Two Dataset objects. If only one Dataset object is provided,
            ``trainer.validate()`` will throw a ValueError.
        """
        return LinearDataset(2, 5), LinearDataset(2, 5, size=400)

    def loss_creator(config):
        """Constructs the Torch Loss object.

        Note that optionally, you can pass in a Torch Loss constructor directly
        into the PyTorchTrainer (i.e., ``PyTorchTrainer(loss_creator=nn.BCELoss, ...))``).

        Returns:
            Torch Loss object.
        """
        return torch.nn.BCELoss()

Before instantiating the trainer, you'll have to start or connect to a Ray cluster:

.. code-block:: python

    ray.init()
    # or ray.init(address="auto") if a cluster has been started.

Instantiate the trainer object:

.. code-block:: python

    from ray.experimental.sgd import PyTorchTrainer

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        loss_creator=nn.MSELoss,
        config={"lr": 0.001})

> You can also set the number of workers and whether the workers are using GPU:

Author: ```suggestion
You can also set the number of workers and whether the workers will use GPUs:
```

.. code-block:: python

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        loss_creator=nn.MSELoss,
        config={"lr": 0.001},
        num_replicas=100,
        use_gpu=True)

See the documentation on the PyTorchTrainer here: :ref:`ref-pytorch-trainer`.
We'll look at the training APIs next.

Training APIs
-------------

Now that the trainer is constructed, you'll naturally want to train the model.

.. code-block:: python

    trainer.train()

This takes one pass over the training data.

To run the model on the validation data passed in by the ``data_creator``, you can simply call:

.. code-block:: python

    trainer.validate()

You can customize the exact function that is called by using a customized training function (see :ref:`raysgd-custom-training`).

Shutting down training
----------------------

After training, you may want to reappropriate the Ray cluster. To release Ray resources obtained by the trainer:

.. code-block:: python

    trainer.shutdown()

> .. note:: Be sure to call ``save`` or ``get_model`` before shutting down.

Author: ```suggestion
.. note:: Be sure to call ``trainer.save()`` or ``trainer.get_model()`` before shutting down.
```

    trainer.train()
    model = trainer.get_model()

Distributed Multi-node Training
-------------------------------

You can scale out your training onto multiple nodes without making any modifications to your training code. To train across a cluster, simply make sure that the Ray cluster is started.

You can start a Ray cluster `via the Ray cluster launcher <autoscaling.html>`_ or `manually <using-ray-on-a-cluster.html>`_.

.. code-block:: bash

    ray up CLUSTER.yaml
    python train.py --address="auto"

Then, you'll be able to scale up the number of workers seamlessly across multiple nodes:

.. code-block:: python

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        loss_creator=lambda config: nn.MSELoss(),
        num_replicas=100)

Advanced: Fault Tolerance
-------------------------

For distributed deep learning, jobs are often run on infrastructure where nodes can be pre-empted frequently (i.e., spot instances in the cloud). To overcome this, RaySGD provides **fault tolerance** features that enable training to continue regardless of node failures.

.. code-block:: bash

    trainer.train(max_retries=N)

> During each ``train`` method, each parallel worker iterates through the dataset, synchronizing gradients and parameters at each batch. These synchronization primitives can hang when one or more of the parallel workers becomes unresponsive (i.e., when a node is lost). To address this, we've implemented the following protocol.

Reviewer: Do you want to discuss how this synchronization is done. For example, are gradients and parameters averaged together in some way?

.. code-block:: bash

    trainer.train(max_retries=N, checkpoint="auto")

Advanced: Hyperparameter Tuning
-------------------------------

``PyTorchTrainer`` naturally integrates with Tune via the ``PyTorchTrainable`` interface. The same arguments to ``PyTorchTrainer`` should be passed into the ``tune.run(config=...)`` as shown below.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../python/ray/experimental/sgd/pytorch/examples/tune_example.py
   :language: python
   :start-after: __torch_tune_example__

Simultaneous Multi-model training
---------------------------------

In certain scenarios such as training GANs, you may want to use multiple models in the training loop. You can do this in the ``PyTorchTrainer`` by allowing the ``model_creator`` and the ``optimizer_creator`` to return multiple values. You can see the `DCGAN script <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/python/ray/experimental/sgd/pytorch/examples/dcgan.py>`_ for an end-to-end example.

.. code-block:: python

    def model_creator(config):
        netD = Discriminator()
        netD.apply(weights_init)

        netG = Generator()
        netG.apply(weights_init)

>         return netD, netG

Reviewer: I wonder if we should return lists when more than 1 is returned? Or should it always return a list for uniformity, even when just 1 is returned? Similarly, should any function that accepts model(s) as an argument always take a list?

Author: Well, I guess in python the return value is always a list/iterable if there's more than 1 returned. 

I think the general case will be to return 1 item, so forcing a list return is quite cumbersome. Internally, it is converted to a list though.

Author: ```
In [1]: def test():
   ...:     return 1, 2, 3
   ...:

In [2]: a = test()

In [3]: a
Out[3]: (1, 2, 3)

Author: To be clear this is a valid point - we can open a separate issue/get user feedback down the road.

    def optimizer_creator(models, config):
        net_d, net_g = models
        discriminator_opt = optim.Adam(
            net_d.parameters(), lr=config.get("lr", 0.01), betas=(0.5, 0.999))
        generator_opt = optim.Adam(
            net_g.parameters(), lr=config.get("lr", 0.01), betas=(0.5, 0.999))
        return discriminator_opt, generator_opt

    trainer = PyTorchTrainer(
        model_creator,
        data_creator,
        optimizer_creator,
        nn.BCELoss)

.. _raysgd-custom-training:

Custom Training and Validation Functions
----------------------------------------

> ``PyTorchTrainer`` allows you to run a custom training and validation in parallel on each worker, providing a flexibility similar to using PyTorch natively. This is done via the ``train_function`` and ``validation_function`` parameters.

Reviewer: "custom training and validation step in ..." ? (add "step")

Author: ```suggestion
``PyTorchTrainer`` allows you to run a custom training and validation step in parallel on each worker, providing a flexibility similar to using PyTorch natively. This is done via the ``train_function`` and ``validation_function`` parameters.
```

.. code-block:: python

    def train(models, dataloader, criterion, optimizers, config):
        """A custom training function.

        Args:
            models: Output of the model_creator passed into PyTorchTrainer.
            data_loader: A dataloader wrapping the training dataset created by the ``data_creator`` passed into PyTorchTrainer.

>             criterion: The instantiation of the ``loss_creator``.

Reviewer: Why now use "loss" instead of "criterion" for consistency?
